# Employee Recommendation System

This repository contains code for an Employee Recommendation System that clusters employees within a particular organization based on their performance and provides insights into their strengths and weaknesses. The system processes employee data from multiple sources, performs data preprocessing, and assigns performance grades to employees. It then identifies top-performing employees and saves their information in CSV files.

### Prerequisites
Before running the code, ensure you have the following libraries installed:

- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- openpyxl
- scikit-learn (sklearn)

You can install these libraries using pip:
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib openpyxl scikit-learn

### Code Description
The code is organized into three main sections, each corresponding to a different employee type: TME (Tele Marketing Executive), JDA (JD Associate), and ME (Marketing Executive). Here's an overview of what each section does:

#### TME (Tele Marketing Executives)
- Reads employee data from CSV and Excel files.
- Performs data preprocessing, including label encoding of employee types.
- Calculates various metrics related to employee performance.
- Normalizes performance metrics and calculates an overall "Performance" score.
- Assigns performance grades to employees.
- Filters active employees based on performance and other criteria.
- Exports top-performing employees to a CSV file (TME_super30.csv) and rising superstars to another CSV file (TME_rising_superstars.csv).

#### JDA (JD Associate )
This section follows a similar structure to the TME section but focuses on a different employee type, i.e., JD Associate.

#### ME (Marketing Executive)
This section follows the same structure as the TME and JDA sections but focuses on Marketing Executive.

### Usage
- Ensure you have the required libraries installed (see "Prerequisites" above).
- Place the necessary input data files (dealcloselistdata.csv, team_detail.csv, mandate_rejection_percentage.xlsx, emplevel_data_from2019.xlsx) in the same directory as the code.
- Run the code for each employee type separately (TME, JDA, ME) to generate CSV files containing the top-performing and rising star employees for each type.
- The generated CSV files will be named TME_super30.csv, TME_rising_superstars.csv, JDA_super30.csv, JDA_rising_superstars.csv, ME_super30.csv, and ME_rising_superstars.csv, respectively.

### Results
The CSV files generated by the code will contain information about employees, including their performance metrics, grades, and other relevant details. These files can be used for further analysis and decision-making within the organization.

### Note
Please make sure to adapt the code and file paths as needed to match your specific data sources and requirements.

Feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need further assistance with this Employee Recommendation System.
